Good afternoon.
What we're going to be doing today is
going through basically this is the next
in the series of Java talks that we're
going to be doing through the conference.
And the goal of this talk is to basically
make sure that we're all on the same page
as far as developing Java applications
because I don't know how many of you
already have existing applications,
but Java, we've got applications coming
from MRJ on classic Mac OS,
also from a collection
of other platforms.
What we wanted to do before we dove
into some of the other talks is to
make sure that we're all working from
the same foundation and understand
how development on Mac OS X is
going to work going forward.
So the first thing that I'm
going to be going through,
let's see if we can figure out how, oh,
nope, that's me.
The first thing that we're going to do
is go through just some basic foundations
of what is on the Mac OS X platform,
the CDs that you got yesterday,
make sure we're clear on the
infrastructure that you've got,
the development tools that
you have available to you,
and that kind of thing.
And then what we're going to do is spend
the bulk of the presentation walking
through what you need to do to bring
your Java applications to Mac OS X,
how you build them, how you set them up,
that kind of thing,
to the point that you're
actually ready to deliver them
to your customers on Mac OS X.
And then at the end,
I'm going to point you at all of the
different sessions that you can go to
after this to get more information.
But we want to make sure that
you're all on the same page.
So we're going to go through all
of the different things that you
need to do to get more information.
But we wanted to make sure before
you went into those other talks that
we're all talking on the same page.
So it occurred to me when
we were like going through
setting up this presentation,
I was trying to figure out how
to lay this out so that it would
make a certain amount of sense.
And it occurred to me that
building a Java application
is real similar to cooking,
to put it real simply.
There's a whole collection of steps that
you have to do to go through and make
an application that are very similar
actually to the steps that are required
to bake a cake or something like that.
First of all,
there's a collection of ingredients
and tools that you're going
to need to make sure you have.
In the case of a recipe, it's,
let's say you're making a cake,
it's the flours, the sugar, the eggs,
all that kind of stuff.
It's the pots and pans, the oven,
that kind of thing.
And a Java application is real similar.
You've got your source code,
you've got the things that
you're bringing from the other
platforms into the equation,
and then there's the
things that we provide.
Beyond that,
there's a collection of pre-prep steps
that you're going to need to go through.
And we're going to go through that.
As it relates to your application.
Then there's the actual bulk of the
preparation of your application.
What you do to actually build
the application to get to the
point where you've got a running
executable that you can test and run
and debug and that kind of thing.
But, in my opinion,
almost more importantly,
especially if you're coming from a point
where you've already got an application,
is once you've got the
application ready and running,
there's a collection of basically
flash in the pan kinds of things.
All of the garnish and
the stuff that goes in.
So,
there's a collection of things that goes
around your application to make it behave
well and fit in well with the Macintosh.
So, we're going to go into how to make
your Java application then blend into
the Macintosh and be something that
your end users will be happy using.
Especially if you've got hardcore
Mac users that are used to a
whole collection of behaviors.
There's things that you're going
to need to be aware of in your
application to make sure that Mac users
are happy with your application.
And then finally, there's the delivery.
How do you actually bundle it up
and give it to your developers?
So, let's dive in.
First of all, there's the supplies and
ingredients that you need to
walk into your development with.
Like I said before,
the supplies and ingredients in
cooking are the things you buy from
the grocery store and the things
that would be in your kitchen.
In your Java application,
it's your source code,
it's your make files,
it's your code warrior projects,
if you've got those, any resource files,
icon files, images, that kind of thing.
And it's also the tools
that we're going to provide.
So I'm going to walk you
through basically what we're
going to be providing and what
you need to bring to the game.
So let's start off first with a basic
kind of block diagram that you're
familiar with in all of these talks,
is the basic architecture
as it relates to Java.
First of all,
you've got the classic Mac OS X Core OS.
It's a standard Unix style Mach kernel.
All of the systems facilities that
Unix developers are familiar with are
going to be available to you on Mac 10.
And that's why Mac OS X lends
itself very well to Java,
is Java's designed around those kind of
primitives and that kind of architecture.
So that's what's sitting
under the covers.
That's some of the work that we
had to do on classic Mac OS to
shoehorn Java onto classic Mac OS.
We don't have to do as much of
the nitty gritty kind of things
because the OS is down there.
On top of it,
you've got the standard Unix development
tools that Unix developers are familiar
with as far as command line tools,
all of the facilities that you've come
to know and love or know and hate,
depending on how well you like Unix.
Those are all down there
and available to you.
a Unix development environment,
you've got those available to you.
In addition, there's the Java,
which is the bulk of this presentation
and these talks is what we're going
to be providing is a core Java,
Java 2 version 1.2.2 platform with all
of the Java tools that are familiar
to Java developers on Solaris,
all of these standard command-line tools,
in addition to a collection of
tools that Apple's providing to you
to make your application better,
make your application development
experience better on the Mac OS X.
And on top of it is your application.
So that's the kind of final
product that we're hoping to walk
out of this presentation with.
So first of all, the supplies,
what we're going to be bringing
to the table is a basic unit,
Mox kernel, Java 2 standard edition,
and Project Builder,
which we believe is a world-class
development environment that you
can use to build your applications.
And that's what the core of
this presentation is going to be
about is using Project Builder
to build Java applications.
I'll go into some of the
other tools briefly as well,
but this is how we're going
to plan this presentation.
And what you're going to be bringing
is your standard Java application
and your recipe for building it.
That may be the Makefiles,
that may be the Code Warrior Projects,
that kind of thing.
But however you build it,
your understanding of how
to build your product.
So the base development platform,
is a, like I said,
the standard Mach Unix base OS,
standard Unix development tools.
For those of you that have more complex
Java applications that aren't pure Java,
you're gonna care about a collection,
a lot of these,
things like Make or GNU Make,
or Jam that comes with Project Builder,
CC, GCC,
if you care about those kind of things,
GDB, standard Unix development tools
for building native methods,
for building any other
portions of your platform.
In addition,
the Java 2 SDK standard edition,
right now what's on your CD is the 1.2.2
version of the Java 2 standard edition.
Our plans for Mac OS X GM as they stand
right now are to rev to the 1.3 version,
but that wasn't available at the
time that we had to slam the CD,
so we didn't merge that in to
what you've got on your CD,
but that is the plan for Mac OS X GM.
High level Java 2 features,
Steve went over some of these,
and I could spend an entire talk
talking about all the different
features that are in Java 2,
and I don't want to go
into all those details.
But there are some high level
features that you should be
aware of that are interesting,
especially to those of you that are
familiar with MRJ on classic Mac OS.
First of all,
there's the Java Foundation classes,
which, I mean, I'm biased.
But those, in my opinion,
are the most interesting.
Which is the swing
UI framework particularly,
which is a much more flexible,
much more well architected UI framework
for developing applications that allow
you to write applications that much more
seamlessly move from platform to platform
than we got with the classic AWT.
It also allows for
pluggable look and feels,
and you've seen actually demos
of that in previous presentations
of the Mac OS look and feel,
the Aqua look and feel that
we're working on for Mac OS X.
In addition, there's the Java 2D graphics
architecture,
which is an extremely powerful graphics
architecture that provides a lot more,
you know, a lot more flexibility and more
graphics primitives and functionality
than you got out of Java in the past.
And we're working really
hard to tie this in with the
platform and the infrastructure
that's available on Mac OS X.
There's also a collection
of collection classes,
the kinds of infrastructure that a lot of
application developers end up rewriting
whenever they go to a new platform,
Java's providing a lot
of those things for you.
In addition, there's a policy based
enhanced security model,
which is a much more,
a much more exhaustive security model
than it was available in the past,
much more flexible.
And also a collection of APIs to the VM.
And this is particularly
interesting to those of you that
are doing development tools.
We would actually love to hear from
you if you're doing development tools,
because the VM that is
on Mac OS X allows for,
provides APIs for plugging
in debuggers and plugging in
profilers and that kind of thing.
So if you're interested in that,
the follow on talks will
give you more information.
We would actually love to
talk to you about that.
And then there's a
gazillion other features.
I mean, I don't know if you,
I don't know how many of you
saw SnareOff's talk yesterday,
but the, the Java 2 platform is huge
compared to the JDK 1.1 platform.
So in addition,
like we've done on MRJ in the past,
Java for Mac OS X is going to provide
a collection of other features as well.
First of all,
the hotspot client compiler.
You saw a bunch of
numbers on this yesterday.
We hope that this is going to give us
amazing performance on Mac OS X and
make your applications scream.
In addition,
there's the -- we're working on an
improved application embedding model.
I don't know how many of you
are familiar with the JManager,
but the JManager we've discovered
over the course of years of
development is kind of complex
to use and a little confusing for
application developers to use.
On Mac OS X,
we're moving to a much simpler and,
in my opinion,
much more powerful embedding
model that is very similar to
what you're familiar with with
developing other Carbon applications.
So Blaine's talk tomorrow will
provide more information on that
as well as a new and improved
JDIRECT native method access.
So, thank you.
Thank you.
Um, so, let's go back to the first slide.
So, you know,
there's a bunch of things that
we're going to be doing here.
One of the things that we're going
to be doing is we're going to
be looking at a bunch of things
that we're going to be working on.
One of those things is the Mac OS X Java,
that will -- that we ended up having
to re -- make minor changes to,
to allow for pluggable VMs,
which is one of the features
of the Mac OS X Java.
And then there's a collection of other
features that are available as well.
and I will have a look at the next steps.
So, first of all,
let's talk about what isn't in DP4.
I figured it was worth calling out what
isn't there so that when you're poking
around and starting to play with this,
that you don't expect
things that aren't there.
First of all,
the Aqua look and feel for Swing,
it's not that it's not there,
there's a collection
of very visible bugs.
So when you're playing around,
keep in mind that there's a couple
of very visible bugs that you'll
see that just didn't make the cut.
We were like cramming to get stuff in,
and you'll see that those bugs
have actually been fixed recently,
so we wanted to get those out to you,
but in the meantime,
you'll notice things like scroll bars
aren't appearing and things like that.
That will be fixed, obviously,
it'll be fixed on stage,
but I didn't want you
surprised and mailing us,
telling us that it wasn't there,
because we know.
Input method support,
Java 2 provides a...
[Transcript missing]
The other thing you need to be
aware of is development tools.
There's a collection of -- I keep
using that word over and over
again -- there's a collection of
development tools options for you.
This presentation is going to be
targeted at a project builder because,
frankly, I think it's really cool.
But there's a collection of
other development tools and
development environments that
are also reasonably cool as well,
or really cool as well,
depending on what -- the kind of
application you're developing.
So project builder is what
we're going to be talking about,
but MetroWorks Code Warrior is
also available.
And there's -- I don't remember
if the Code Warrior presentations
already happened or will be happening,
but Code Warrior for Mac OS X,
as well as you can develop on classic
Mac OS your Code Warrior projects
and bundle them up for Mac OS X.
So that's an option.
As well as standard Unix-style tools.
So there's a lot of options for you,
and hopefully more to come.
And then there's a
collection of other tools.
The standard JDK tools,
which I keep saying over and over again,
that are all there.
There's alternate tools
such as the JICS compiler,
which in certain situations we've
discovered is a lot faster than Java C,
but it depends on your situations.
There's application packaging
tools that we're providing to
you for creating app bundles.
And we're going to go into app bundles
a little more in a little while,
but we're providing some tools for you
to be able to do that kind of thing.
And debugging tools.
There's standard Unix debugging tools,
GDB, JDB.
There's also work going on to
integrate the debugging into the IDE.
There's already debugging
support for native apps,
and we're working on
Java debugging in the IDE.
So you should be able to,
within Project Builder,
do full-fledged Java debugging.
So...
The other thing to be aware of and
be familiar with before you start
diving in is where to find the JDK.
Those of you that are familiar with
Unix platforms will be familiar
to a certain extent with what
you find on the disk on Mac OS X.
On Mac OS X in general the
libraries and frameworks are down.
If you go through your directory,
if you've installed it,
you may have noticed.
In system, libraries, frameworks,
there's a Java VM framework.
That's where the entire Java VM lives.
There's links in Unix places to
make some of the make files and
work and that kind of thing.
But essentially, you've got inside of
your Java VM framework,
you've got your classes
directory that has classes.jar.
You've got commands, headers,
all the normal kinds of stuff.
And you'll also see a
versions directory in there.
This is an internal development process.
We're not going to have multiple
versions of the JVM on the framework.
This is a final shipping product,
but this is how standard
Mac OS X applications are
going to be bundled up.
So if you go rooting around,
you'll discover things
that you're familiar with.
This is different than what
you're familiar with if
you're familiar with MRJ.
Because MRJ separates out the runtime
from the software development kit
so that you get the MRJ SDK with all
the tools and that kind of thing.
Those are on the disk here.
So those will all be
available to you in one place.
[Transcript missing]
Okay,
so the first thing that you're going
to need to do when you're building your
application is create a new project.
So for this it's fairly straightforward,
new project.
Wizards right now, like I said,
don't support building Java applications.
We're going to kind of walk around doing
the building of the Java application.
So in this case,
what we're going to do is build a
Carbon application because there's
a small Carbon stub that we're going
to build that's going to launch Java.
So you would select build
Carbon application and then
select your project name.
In this case,
I've actually got one that's kind
of precooked a little that I'll show
you the flag but I didn't want to
dwell on all of the little details.
So in this case,
we're going to cancel out of here,
go to file and select open new
project and then just select the
MetroXPB project and open that up.
What you'll see in here is basically
your entire project and what we're
going to do with this template project
is bring in all of the sources,
all of the different pieces that
make up your Java application.
So first of all,
what we're going to do is
add all of your sources.
So to do that, you click on the sources
directory and go up to project,
add files.
and select all of your sources.
You can add them in hierarchies
or you can add them one by one.
What we're going to do is go ahead
and add all the Java sources.
The project builder project.
Project builder is aware
of how to build Java code,
just not as standard applications.
So you can see in here we've
imported all the sources into Java.
In addition,
there's a collection of resources that
you're going to need to be aware of
and be including in your application
to make your Java application look
and feel like a Mac-application.
So what we're going to do here is, again,
to add resource files, you add files,
and then what we're going to do
is there's a metalworks.icns.
So basically what I've done in this
is taken the metalworks that you get
out of the standard Java distribution
and made some minor things to be able
to build it with project builders.
So we're going to have a metalworks.icns,
which are icon files.
I'll show you how to wire in icon files.
And your mrjapp.properties.
So go ahead and add those.
For those of you that have
already been playing with MRJ and
gotten the latest MRJ SDK,
you'll see the MRJ app builder.
This is a new application bundling
model that will allow us to take
applications back and forth.
I'll talk about that a little later,
but the important piece of it
is this MRJ app.properties file.
So if you could boink on that.
Go back one.
Go back to the files.
MRJ app.properties.
What you can see in here is
basically the app.properties is
how you define all of the details
of how to launch the application.
This is where you define your main class.
This is where you define your class pass.
And then there's a collection of others.
You can define command line switches.
You can define all of the different flags
that we would normally pass into the VM.
You define these in here.
So what you can see up here is
I have defined the com.apple
MRJ applications main is Metalworks,
which is the main class.
And the class pass is the main class.
And the class pass is
where to find these.
And you'll see that the Metalworks
is just the standard class.
The contents resources
Java Metalworks.jar is what
Project Builder is going to build.
So that path up to it I'll talk a
little bit about in just a second.
But it's a reference
into the app package.
And Project Builder is going to
actually build a jar that is called
whatever your target name is .jar.
And so you're going to need to point
your MRJ app.properties into there.
So the other things you can see up here
are some of what I was talking about.
Some of the kind of workarounds that
you're going to need to be able to use
what you've got in your CD right now.
A lot of these will be going away
and Project Builder will be able to
burp out the correct application for
the GM version of Project Builder.
But right now you're going to
have to do a little bit of a
dance to get this to happen.
So what you can see here
is the Java app shell,
which is basically a little tiny
C Carbon application that actually
launches the Java application.
And the headers.
And then there's a collection of
external libraries and frameworks,
which are C libraries and
frameworks that are on the system
that the app builder needs.
Carbon, the system, and then libappshell,
which is basically a piece of
our Java VM that is responsible
for bootstrapping up the VM.
So those things will be abstracted
away from you in the final,
but I did want to point them out
in this presentation because when
you're rooting around in your
Project Builder files and trying to
get your applications up and running,
you're going to need to be aware
that they're there for right now.
So with that,
let's go ahead and set up the
build so that we're ready to build.
So we boink on the targets and then
boink on the Metalworks target.
So we select the actual
application target that we want.
And what you'll see up here -- and I am
just flying through this -- what you'll
see up here is a collection of paints
that allow you to set all of the build
flags that you need for your application.
Actually, go back to the files.
Go back to the files and
build phases real quick.
This is where Project Builder is
rocking all of the different files
that make up your application.
So you can see here -- you should check
when you're importing your sources
that all your sources appear in here.
You can see all your Java sources.
You can also see the little
stub app we have there,
the frameworks,
and all of the other bundle
resources and things like that.
So you need to make sure that
those are all visible and appearing
how you expect them to appear.
I misimported a couple of files
yesterday when I was playing with it,
and they ended up in bundle
resources instead of sources.
So you should double check just to
make sure that you didn't make a
mistake in importing your files.
So the next thing we want to
do is click on Build Settings.
Build Settings is where you define
a collection of flags that you
need to build your application.
First of all is the
application project name,
which in this case matches the targets.
The more important ones that you need to
be aware of -- most of these are fine,
with the exception of
down in Build Flags,
there are two flags that Project Builder
doesn't add to your application.
Project Builder doesn't add to the
Carbon application by default that
you need to look for if you're
not going to use our template.
The Java compiler, which points at which
Java compiler you want to use.
If you want to use Jyx,
you would point at a
different Java compiler.
And then the library search paths.
And this basically points the
access paths and the compilers
to point to the right to be able
to find the Java VM libraries.
And the rest of this
should be set up fine.
So the next thing we want to do is
Boink on the application settings.
And this is where,
for those of you that read through
the book they gave you yesterday,
you'll see there's a collection of
information that goes into bundles,
whether they be app bundles,
or they be frameworks,
or whatever they are.
There is a Info.plist that is
defined in your application that
defines a collection of properties.
This pane here is where you go
ahead and set those kind of things.
This is where you set all the
different CFBundle properties and
any custom properties that you might
want to use in your application.
So most of these are actually
set up correctly when you
build your application.
You can see your executables
defined as Metalworks.
You could change that if
you're doing anything custom.
The only one that we're going to define
in here is the CFBundle icon file.
The icon file is where you would
drop all of your icons from Mac OS X.
So in this case,
we've already got a file called
metalworks.icns that we're going
to go ahead and push into there.
Go ahead and hit return.
So that's all we need to do in there.
You can add things if you want.
You don't need to.
The defaults for the most part are fine.
And then there's the executables pane.
Go ahead and look in
the executables pane.
This should be fine,
but it defines where the executables
live and how Project Builder's going
to go ahead and run your executables.
[Transcript missing]
So what you can see here is
your standard Java application.
You notice down in the dock there's
the icon for our application.
That's the icons that
we actually put into,
we defined in the properties pane,
and it's a standard Java application.
The windows have Mac frames,
but this is standard Metalworks that
you've seen in the Java distribution.
So that's all set.
So now at this point actually,
can we go back to the disk?
Am I going to short circuit something?
Go back to the finder.
Okay, so now, and favorites, Java Dev.
You can see on our disk,
we've got our Metalworks folder,
which is where all of our sources were.
You can see the source directory.
Native is the little stubs
that we have in there.
You can see the Metalworks.pbproj,
which is what you'll select
to open it in the future.
You can also see a build directory.
If we open that build directory,
you'll see.
We've got the different pieces
that go into our application.
Intermediates is where our project
builder is gonna leave all of
the intermediary build files.
And you can also see the application.
This is the application that we just ran.
So if you double click on that,
it's gonna flip over.
That's what project builder ran.
So we've got an application on
our disk that's ready to go.
So,
That's the basic preparation phase.
So, like I said,
and can we get the slides
back up on the screen now?
So like I said,
there's the basic preparation phase of,
okay, you've got a lot of sources that
you want to dump on Mac OS X,
and you want to get them up and building.
Project Builder should make it very easy.
You've got a collection of build
tools and that kind of thing
that will help you and get your
Java application up and running.
But in my opinion,
once the preparation's done,
you've basically got a pie in a pan.
There's still a bunch of steps that
you need to go through to build a
full-fledged Macintosh application.
We would love to believe that what
JavaSoft is touting as "write once,
run anywhere" really is the case,
but in my opinion,
what I've been trying to tell
developers for years now is that
there's still a lot of work that
you -- maybe not a lot of work,
a lot less work than you would
have to do if you're porting
from Windows to Macintosh with C,
but there's still a fair amount of
work you need to do to make your
application look and behave like
Macintosh users are accustomed to.
If you've got users that are accustomed
to your own custom UI framework,
like Oracle had and that kind of thing,
that's fine.
And that's different from
Mac users and Windows users.
But in the case where you're trying
to write an application that's
transparent to the end user what
the development environment is,
then you've still got
work to do to get there.
The first most obvious thing that
you probably saw in Metalworks,
which is the development environment,
is that you've got to build
a full-fledged Mac OS X.
And that's a big problem.
And the other thing that we saw in
Metalworks running is the look and feel.
The look and feel looked
like a Java application.
It didn't look like what
Macintosh applications look like.
And this is a problem.
So what we've done and what
you've seen in previous demos
is the Aqua look and feel,
the Mac OS look and feel for Swing.
And what we've done is implemented
a look and feel that will run both
on Mac OS X now and we actually
are investigating project plans to
bring it back to Mac OS 8 as well.
The layers on top of Swing that takes
advantage of the Macintosh toolbox,
that takes advantage of Carbon and lets
you write Swing applications that feel
or at least look like Mac applications.
The first thing to keep in
mind is it's Mac OS native.
It's implemented on top of Carbon.
This has a couple of implications.
First of all, it should be fast.
Second of all,
it won't run on other platforms.
We have no intention of bringing
the Mac look and feel to Windows.
I don't really want to do that.
So we have no intention.
It's layered on top of Carbon.
It uses the Carbon infrastructure.
And the most important thing from
my perspective is that you're
going to get the Aqua appearance on
Mac OS X or the platinum appearance
on Mac OS 8 or classic Mac OS.
And most importantly,
you'll get the changes that are
made as the underlying platform
progresses with no work on your part,
more importantly to me,
no work on our part.
Since it's layered on top of Carbon,
as the behavior, the looks,
and that kind of thing of
the experience changes,
our calling through Carbon will
exhibit that in your application.
So let's say it tinges on scroll bars,
any of the looks of the
Aqua appearance as they change,
your application will
pick them up for free.
Like I said, you get the platinum
appearance on classic Mac OS.
We don't have product
plans for that immediately,
but we do intend to roll that out.
We just don't have a
release platform for it.
That was where the initial work
was done for the look and feel,
was on top of classic Mac OS.
The other thing is menu placement.
Menu placement is one of those
things that Windows users,
Mac users fight about all the time.
And we've been fighting with with
Swing is Swing traditionally has had
the menus associated with Windows,
which in my opinion is wrong.
So for the Mac look and feel,
we've allowed you to change
the menu placement so the menus
are in the right place where
Macintosh users will expect them.
So that when you bundle
your application up,
it will look like a
Macintosh application.
So to enable this, it's super easy.
It's super easy.
Right now, what you've got on your
CD doesn't have it on by default,
largely because it's
still got bugs in it.
We're still not completely
happy with what's on the CD,
so we've still got some work to do,
so it's not on by default.
But to turn it on just to play with it,
it's super simple.
It's just like enabling
any other look and feel.
You go ahead and call
uimanager.setlookandfeel to comapple.
MRJ, Swing, Mac look and feel,
just like you would any
other look and feel.
And then if you've got a
pre-existing component tree,
you're going to have to go ahead and tell
your component tree to update itself,
to walk through and update the
look and feel so that it becomes
visible and catches exceptions.
Kind of standard Java kind of stuff.
There's nothing you need to do.
To get the Mac OS menu placement,
if you're writing standard
swing applications,
you're probably already
doing what you need.
All you need to do is
call jframes set jmenubar.
That will set the menu bar that you
need and put it in the right place.
There's a couple of things
you need to keep in mind.
First of all,
you can't have an AWT menu bar
associated with it at the same time.
You need to pick.
You're going to need to pick
swing menus or AWT menus.
You also can't do this
on jdialogues right now.
They don't support heavyweight menus.
So, and there will also be a property
to be able to disable this.
So let's say the architecture of
your application in the short term
isn't set up to be able to deal
with menu bars in the right place.
There will be an architecture
to be able to disable this.
Although, we'd really rather you put
them in the right place.
So, but like I said, it's super easy.
Basically,
to get the Mac look and feel for swing,
it takes almost no effort
on your part to enable it.
So, if we could get this screen up.
Okay.
Demo one up on the screen.
Oh, cool.
So, like I said, it's super easy.
Let's go back into project builder.
In project builder,
you've got your metalworks.java which,
in this case,
is where we define the Mac look and feel.
So all we need to do is
enable the Mac look and,
is where you define your look and feel.
So all we need to do is
basically comment out the line,
uncomment the line that
sets the metal and comment,
do the right thing.
Rebuild.
We'll take just a second.
[Transcript missing]
So finally, there's the final step of,
okay, we've got an application that
looks like a Macintosh application,
behaves like a Macintosh application.
We now need to deliver it to our users.
This is something that actually I'm
kind of excited about on Mac OS X.
Mac OS X has created
this concept of a bundle,
and what I would suggest you do is,
I was actually leafing through
the documentation we gave
you when you first got here,
there's a really good chapter in
that book on what bundles are.
There's application bundles, frameworks,
that kind of thing.
It gives you a good breakdown
of what all goes into a bundle,
and when you're building
heavyweight applications,
you should be familiar with that.
And that's what we are taking
advantage of on top of Mac OS X.
So Java applications are bundled
just like any other applications,
where you've got your Info.plist,
which I pointed out
before in project builder,
is where you define
Macintosh-specific settings.
You'll also notice
there's a Mac OS folder.
Inside of the contents folder,
and the contents folder is what contains
all of the meat of your application.
Inside there, there's a Mac OS folder,
which is where the native
stub application lives.
For the most part,
you're not going to care about that if
you're doing a pure Java application,
because we're going to
generate that for you.
With project builder GM,
we're going to generate that for you,
but that's what was generated
with the little stub code
that I showed you previous.
You can also notice the resources folder.
So the resources.java is where all
your Java-built stuff is going to go,
and is also where your
mrj-apps.properties goes,
and all the other resources
that go along with it.
So it's pretty well laid out,
and this should be
obscured from the user.
We created a tool so that if you've
already got a built Java thingy,
You can drop,
you can bring your pre-built jars or
zips or whatever over to Mac OS X.
You don't need to go through the
full series of steps on building your
application with Project Builder.
Let's say you've got an
application that has a jar already.
What you would do is use the
MRJ app builder to define
all the same kinds of things.
Point at your MRJ properties,
MRJ app.properties file,
point at your configuration files,
any of your applications,
that kind of thing.
Um, and MRJ app builder will cons
up an application for you.
So you don't have to go through
Project Builder if you don't want
to and it'll have the same effect.
Um, but pro-this,
this functionality is being
merged into Project Builder.
So Project Builder is
gonna do the same thing.
The other cool thing, in my opinion,
about the bundle model is it's
going to carry back and forth
between classic Mac OS and Mac OS X.
The goal by Mac OS X GM for us is for
you to be able to build an application
bundle that will carry from Mac OS X to
classic Mac OS with basically no changes.
The packaging is the same.
Mac OS 9 is aware of Mac OS X bundles
and should display them to users as a
single double-clickable application.
The folder nature will be
visible on pre-9.0 systems,
and the way that we're going
to deal with that is if you,
again, this is all documented in the
book that you got earlier,
but the way that you're going to
get around that is your Macintosh
application folder is going to have an
alias at the top to the classic thing,
so that your pre-9.0 users will open that
folder and double-click on the alias.
Now in DP4,
you can build Mac OS X applications.
We don't have the support for you yet.
We will for GM to be able to
build classic Mac OS applications.
So for GM,
you'll be able to build a job application
bundle that has the information for
both classic Mac OS and Mac OS X.
For what's on your CD,
you're not going to be
able to do that right now.
So that's basically how you get
to a full packaged application.
The things I want you to take home is,
first of all,
that the development environment,
while it's a little different,
isn't really all that different
than you're familiar with.
If you're familiar with Unix,
then all the tools that you're
familiar with are available.
But also, if you're an MRJ developer,
we've provided a collection of
tools and interface to abstract
you away from the Unixisms.
You'll notice we never, in this demo,
never went down into a command line
to do any of that kind of work.
Project Builder should take
care of all that for you,
but if you need to,
you can go down in there.
Like I said, we've got a collection of
enhanced development tools,
we've got the ability to create a fit
and finish that makes your application,
the fact that your application
is a Java application,
transparent to the users,
and we've created a
simple delivery mechanism.
So my goal and my hope is that you'll
be able to go home with what I've
given you and the CD that you've got,
with the ability to create a fully
bundled Macintosh application.